Lets now go through our example in our actual
application.
I’ll start off by opening up our favorites
component.
And I’m going to import both of our Output
as well as EventEmitter classes.
Now I’m going to add our Output property
right below our Input.
So we’ll say @Output and lets name our property
notify, which is of type EventEmitter.
And our EventEmitter is going to be a string
and then we set it equal to a new EventEmitter
which is of type string, then we need to invoke
it.
Now the next thing is to create a method in
this FavoriteComponent that’s going to do
something with our notify event.
So we’ll go down here and name our method
onClick which is of type void since it doesn’t
return anything.
But it is going to send a message up to the
parent.
So we’ll say this.notify.emit is going to
send the message ‘Message from chid’.
Now lets go ahead and add a button in our
favorite component html file in order to trigger
this output method.
Below hello world, we’ll add a new div container
that’s going to contain a button, and we’ll
add some bootstrap styling here that’s going
to be btn-info, then add the text ‘Trigger
notify’ inside of our button.
Inside our div is where we’re going to add
our onClick event handler.
We’ll say, when this button is clicked we
want to trigger the onClick method that we
just defined in our component.
With that set up, lets now add this notify
property inside of our books list html file.
Inside of our child selector.
Right now we have our bs-favorite child selector
already defined.
We can add another one here, right now we
have reviews equal book.bookReviews.
So we’ll go ahead and add our notify event
property and then set it equal to a method
we’ll create in our component called onNotifyClicked.
And its going to contain the event that’s
being sent from the child component.
So when a user clicks this button here in
our child component its going to trigger this
method and its going to send the event which
is a string message.
We want to display that message somewhere
in our parent, and to do that we’ll add
an h2 tag right below this container.
And we’ll call this showMessage.
So showMessage is going to display the message
that was emitted from the child up to the
parent.
Now lets open up our books-list component.
And I’m going to clean this up a bit.
Lets remove OnChanges and OnInit.
And then we’ll get rid of this implements.
I’ll get rid of these 2 methods that we
defined as well as the changeMethod and the
animals property.
First I’ll define a property for the showMessage
and its going to be of type string.
And its going to equal, we’ll just say ‘test’
for now, and this is going to change when
we get back the event from our child.
Lets go down here and define our onNotify
method.
We’ll say onNotifyClicked.
This is going to contain a parameter with
the message we received back from the favorite
component.
Its going to be of type string, and this method
is going to be of type void also.
And then we’ll just set our showMessage
property to be equal to the message we received.
If we set up this up correctly, we should
expect this trigger notify button event will
be emitted from our component with the message
‘Message from child’ delivered to its
parent of books-list component and then its
going to show in this showMessage property
we defined in the html right here.
So first we get our ‘test’ because that’s
what we’re displaying in showMessage.
Then if I hit this trigger notify, it gets
changed to Message from child.